In this movie, I'm going to show you how to build a professional PowerPoint template from scratch.
Also, chances are that .potx files you store on your computer are very difficult to work with or
are broken.
These module about templates will for sure help you to fix it.
I want to be 100 percent honest with you.
One of the first things I learned as a business graphic designer was that a properly built template can
really save you hundreds of hours building and editing your slides.
In addition, you should know that you can easily share the .potx template files with other people,
which is especially convenient if you work on a big and time-consuming projects.
OK, are you ready to build the template?
Let's get it started!
The very first thing I'm going to do is creating a new blank presentation.
Next, I'm going to define the page size. To do so, I jump to the 'Design' tab and choose 'Slide Size'.
You have two options available in your dropdown:
4:3
and 16:9.
Which slide size is better,
you might ask.
I have good news in 90 percent of instances,
I choose wide-screen.
Why?
It works best on new screens with a wide aspect ratio,
like new projectors, TVs, LCDs and online platforms like youtube
for example.
4:3, on the other hand, is a good choice
if you have older screens with low resolutions , old projectors or if you use online presentation sharing
platforms like SlideShare, for example.
However, if for any reason you want to set a different size for your slides than the two aforementioned,
just click add the 'Custom Slide Size' command.
The window will open,
and here you can type in your dimensions.
Or you can choose more options from a dropdown list.
OK, now I'm going to change the theme colors.
If you follow my steps, please open an Acme_colors.pptx file inside which you can find the colors
with printed RGB values.
We are going to embed them into our template. By the way, Acme is the name of a fictional company
for which we are going to create a PowerPoint template.
As a next step, please arrange your screen in a way you see the printed RGB values and the blank PowerPoint
presentation.
Once it's done, navigate to the 'Design' tab, click on the little arrow here,
and choose 'Customize Colors' command.
Inside this window, you can see 12 colors which are currently used by PowerPoint.
The first four options include two white and two dark colors.
The relationship between light and dark theme colors is crucial because it ensures that your text
is visible regardless of the slide background you will choose.
Now, let's change the first four color options.
Let's start with the 'Dark 1'.
I put the RGB value, which is (0, 0, 0).
Now, let's edit 'Light 1'. The RGB value is 255 for each channel.
Now, I change color of 'Dark 2'.
And 'Light 2'.
OK, great.
Now, let's discuss the other six colors, which are named as 'Accent 1, 2, 3', etc.
What you should know, they populate various galleries within PowerPoint.
They appear in shape styles,
table styles,
SmartArt graphics galleries and many others.
What is important, charts automatically populate with accent colors in order from 'Accent 1' to 6.
As a next step, let's put six Accent RGB values into our blank files,
plus two RGB values, which will control the look of hyperlinks.
OK.
This is the final effect.
As a last step, let's change the name of color palette into Acme.
_
16.9
And now click 'Save'. Perfect!
Now the colors are ready to be used.
If you want to learn how I've made my decision about these color options and how to design a beautiful
color palette inside PowerPoint, jump to this video available in Module 3.
Now, let's discuss the fonts and how to set them properly for your template.
As a first step, please navigate to the 'Design' tab.
Choose 'Fonts',
and 'Customize Fonts'.
Choose 'Trebuchet MS' for headings,
and  'Trebuchet MS'
for body font. Great!
Now it's time to rename the fontset.
I will type Acme
_
16.9, the very same option I used four color palettes.
Again, Acme is the name of the fictional company, and 16.9 indicates that my template
is wide-screen.
Generally, I would like to encourage you to make it a habit and to name your template elements in the
consistent way.
It will help you to manage your template files and quickly find the appropriate custom settings
if something goes wrong.
OK, here it comes.
Now, if I create a random shape and put some text inside, you can see that the font has changed
into 'Trebuchet'.
And there was no need to make this changes manually.
This is the real power of 'Design' tab.
As a last step, I'm going to apply Theme Effects and Background Styles.
Again, navigate to the 'Design' tab, click on this little arrow here to expand.
Now, make sure you have this first option selected.
Now, let's go to the 'Background Styles',
and make sure the white color is selected.
As you can see in this particular case PowerPoint by default assigned the right Effect and Background
Styles.
To sum up this lesson, you have just made
the first step in creating a professional PowerPoint template.
Now you know how to properly define your page size and which base sizes are most recommended.
You also know how to apply theme colors, theme fonts, as well as theme effects and background styles.